252 Part III EASYPTR 3 Library Routines

 

4.5 Action Routines

All loose menu and application sub-window menu items may have an action
routine which is processed implicitiiy by the window manager routine WM.RPTR
which is called by EM_RPTR.

The EM_SETUP routine allows a very flexible handling of action routines. In
general there are four different ways to install an action routine:

a) if the action routine pointer in the menu definition is zero, as it is in a menu
definition generated from EASYMENU, then EM_SETUP will set a
universal action routine, which saves the item data to the result area and
then causes EM_RPTR to return

b) if the action routine pointer is zero smiths selection key of a loose item is
one of the following standard events, then EM_SETUP will set an internal
action routine:

code    event           action
------------------------------------------
3       cancel          remove menu definition
5       move            move window
6       change size     show change size sprite, after HlT set
                        change data in result area and return
7       sleep           call button sleep thing (if QPAC2 present)

c) if the action routine pointer is zero _an_d the selection key of a loose menu
item is the ASCII code (not the window manager event code) of the key
generating the events mentionned in b), then the selection key is changed
to the standard event code and the universal action routine as in a) is set:

 

ASCII code  event key   is changed to event code
------------------------------------------------
27          ESC         3
245         CTRL F4     5
241         CTRL F3     6
233         CTRL F1     7

Thus the items can be called with the above event keys but then a return
from EM_RPTR follows. The program then may call an own action routine.

d) if the action routine pointer is not zero, i.e. an action routine pointer has
been set manually into the source listing generated with EASYSOURCE,
then EM_SETUP will set this pointer.

4.6 Action routines written in C

As the window manager routine WM.RPTR, which processes the menu call,
expects internal action routines to be written in assembler, it is only possible to
use an action routine written in C if it is called from an assembler routine which
prepares the parameters for it and ensures the return parameters.

The method how this is can be done from within C, is described in chapter 3.1
and with -> WM_RPTR.

This method is only recommended for advanced programmers.

The easier method is to call the action routines after EM_RPTR. Therefore the
data in the result area is used to decide which action routine is to be called.

 

